# Leaf-energy-balance
## Leaf energy balance simulator for Masterthesis:
Ecophysiological adaptations of plant thermoregulation to soil and climatic conditions along a vegetation gradient:
the interplay of leaf temperature, heat tolerance, and transpiration driven by the energy balance
### Biophysical foundations of the leaf energy balance 
The energy balance of a plant leaf is described as the equilibrium between energy uptake and release. The primary focus lies on the radiation balance, since energy is absorbed, converted, and re-emitted by the plant in the form of radiation. As a result, the net radiation can be calculated, which is the driving force behind additional energy fluxes. The plant employs various physiological and morphological mechanisms to maintain this balance while also being influenced by diverse external factors. To understand the energy balance, the radiation balance of the leaf is first analyzed, followed by various components of the energy balance, primarily the energy exchange processes of convection and transpiration, which are essential for compensating the net balance. Finally, the total energy balance is synthesized by integrating all components.
At this point, it should be noted that the energy balance of plants is described by various scientific references using different formulae with varying degrees of accuracy. Certain aspects may be generalized or neglected in the scholarly works: the book Experimental Plant Ecology by Dieter J. von Willert, as well as Gates Biophysical Ecology (Gates, 1980; J. von Willert et al., 1995), and the derived Excel-Sheet from Dr. Markus Burghardt.
